---
title: ë©€í‹° ëª¨ë“ˆ
noindex: true
draft: false
tags:
  - android
date: 2020-06-09T21:17:00
---
# ì„¸ì…˜ ë…¸íŠ¸

> [!info] alexzaitsev/apk-dependency-graph  
> Class dependency visualizer. Only apk file is needed. Class coupling is one of the significant code metrics that shows how easy it is to change, maintain, and test the code. This tool helps to view the whole picture of the project. Table of contents Some helpful scripts are prepared for you.  
> [https://github.com/alexzaitsev/apk-dependency-graph](https://github.com/alexzaitsev/apk-dependency-graph)

### HOMEWORK ðŸ¡

1. repository data source ì˜®ê¸°ê¸°
   1. app / data / local / remote ë‚˜ëˆ„ê¸°
2. appì— local / remote interface ë§Œë“¤ê³ , local/ remoteì—ì„œ impl êµ¬í˜„ â†’ internalë¡œ ì‚¬ìš©í•  ìˆ˜ ì—†ê²Œ ë§Œë“¤ê¸°
   1. app â†’ data â† local/remote

- `implementation` â†’ í•´ë‹¹ ëª¨ë“ˆ ì•ˆì—ì„œë§Œ ì‚¬ìš©í•˜ê² ë‹¤
- `api` â†’ ë‚˜ë¥¼ importí•˜ëŠ” ê³³ì—ì„œë„ ì‚¬ìš©í•  ìˆ˜ ìžˆê²Œ í•˜ê² ë‹¤


# ì¶”ê°€ ìžë£Œ

### difference between private and internal

1. **Internal**: ëª¨ë“ˆ ë‚´ë¶€ì—ì„œë§Œ ì¡°íšŒ ê°€ëŠ¥ í•¨
2. **Private**: í´ëž˜ìŠ¤ ë‚´ë¶€ì—ì„œë§Œ ì¡°íšŒ ê°€ëŠ¥ í•¨

### Use interface for parameters, and implementations for arguments

mediaplayer and UI synchronization

### Error Handling like a pro ðŸ˜Ž

> [!info] Android: Error handling in Clean Architecture  
> We have started refactoring our android project for almost two years with Clean Architecture. Since that time the only topic that has been missing till now is error handling. Sometimes it's confusing how to propagate errors crossing boundaries between layers. Our Clean Architecture brief: Domain : entities and business logic Data : data sources, repositories, providers, 3rd-party services, platform-specific stuff...  
> [https://proandroiddev.com/android-error-handling-in-clean-architecture-844a7fc0dc03](https://proandroiddev.com/android-error-handling-in-clean-architecture-844a7fc0dc03)

livedata on viewmodel

### What is `sealed`?

> [!info] Sealed classes in Kotlin: enums with super-powers  
> Sealed classes in Kotlin are another new concept we didn't have in Java, and open another new world of possibilities. A sealed class allows you to represent constrained hierarchies in which an object can only be of one of the given types. That is, we have a class with a specific number of subclasses.  
> [https://antonioleiva.com/sealed-classes-kotlin/](https://antonioleiva.com/sealed-classes-kotlin/)

## version.gradle


1. suggestion provider(content provider), shared preference class, interface location
2. create resource provider
3. how to import global components ??!?!?
